Now we are starting our implementation and we will start with the signup page.
At the moment I have these terminals opened.
The first one is for AMPM Start.
So this is running the application.
The second one is the NPM test and that is for the default angular test, the one with the jasmine and
karma.
And the last tab is for the just NPM run test, just so all of them are running and.
Here we got the browser, the application is running and I also have another window.
And in this one we see the karma test results.
Now we are going to create the sign up page and for that we are going to use Angular CLI.
So having another terminal right here, I don't want to use the VTS code embedded terminal because it
is leaving very small space for the VTS code.
So I have this separate terminal here.
So we are in the root directory of the project and for creating a component I will be using angular
cli and we can create a component by and g generate component.
Then we give the name for our component and for this one I name it sine dash up.
So this one creates a couple of files.
First, it creates the sign up folder, and in it we have the sign up component CSIS.
Sign up component HTML, sign up component spec.
This is the default test file and the last one is this sign up component and also it is updating.
The App module.
Now let's check the project in verse code.
So here in the source folder under EP, we have this sign up.
And in it we have the sign up component file CSS, HTML aspects and the typescript file of the component
and here in the module.
Right here in the declarations part, we see the sign up component is being imported in this module
and added into the declarations area and here in the karma test output, other than the AB component,
we have the sign up component test now and this is auto generated test and let's see how that test looks
like.
So this is similar to the app component test.
We have this section.
We are.
Configuring the test module and we are declaring this sign up component and this is creating the component
right here and the auto generated test is basically checking this component to be generated in the end.
Now let's see our application in browser and let's display this component in the application.
So let's open the sign up component components right here.
We have this component information and here we see our components selector.
Basically, we can use this one in EBP.
So just opening EBP component.
This is the visible patch at the moment.
I'm just clearing all the content in it.
And just adding EP sign up.
So let's save this one.
And here we see this sign up works and this is coming from this signup component template.
Let's open that one, sign up component HTML.
And here we see this paragraph.
Now we have changed the content of the component and if we check the test console for the karma here
we see a failure and the failing test is this one should render title.
Let's open the app component spec.
So the failing one is this one because it is checking the content of the HTML and it is failing at the
moment.
But we are not going to do any testing for the app component yet.
We will add tests for the app component later, but for now we are not going to use it.
So I'm just going to do like this.
I'm just clearing the these tests and adding a test which is always be passing so it passes and this
is just a test expect through to be.
True.
So this is always passing.
We cannot clear the content.
Otherwise the jasmine is complaining.
If the test module is empty, it's complaining.
But later we will attest to the app component as well.
Now let's jump into the requirements for the sign up component.
At the moment in the signup component, we have this signup works, but this is not what we are going
to have here.
And first, let's have the test for it.
So opening the sign up component spec and just removing this one, it should create.
We don't need this test and we are going to create our own and our first requirement is it.
Has signed up, Heather.
So in this signup page we are looking for a header having this sign up text in it.
So we will get the native element, let's call this one is sign up and we get it by fixture, native
element.
And from this one we can use the query selector.
To query the elements we are looking for and we are looking for an H one.
And let's say this is h one.
And we expect this one.
To have text content.
And it's going to be.
Sign up.
So this is our test.
By the way, we should be using the types here for having a type safety.
So this is basically an HTML element.
And this is again an HTML element from this result.
Now the text content is optional.
It can be null.
Therefore, we use this optional here and let's save this one.
So this test is failing.
It has sign up, addresses failing.
And if we go to the spec list, we can see the failing test here as well.
Now we are going to fix this and basically we are going to just add h one here and the content is signed
up.
And test is passing and if we switch to the browser here we are seeing the header is right here.
So we have completed the first requirement.
Now let's also create the same test with just version.
And for that, I'm just going to create a new file and this is sign up component and is an extension
for the just tests we are using just as.
So in this one, we are going to use the testing library and we import that one.
So we are going to import a couple of functions testing, library, angular and those are.
The render and screen.
And also we need our component because we are testing that component.
So like from sign up components, we are importing the sign up component.
And the test is same.
It has signed up.
Heather.
In the testing library version we call render and we pass the component as a parameter.
So we pass sign up component.
But this render is async, so we need to wait here before doing any query.
So since we are using a weight, we must be making sure our test function is async.
Now the component is rendered.
And in this component, we will be querying the the sign up, Heather.
And we will do it like this.
We get the queries from screen and the query we are going to use is get by role.
So we are querying the elements based on their accessibility roles and the role we are looking for is
heading.
So we don't care about if this is H one, h two or anything.
We just want and heading element, heading role element to have.
This text sign up.
So this is the header we are looking for.
And we expect this, Heather.
And this part is coming from the chest dome matcher.
If you remember, we created this setup test and we are importing this testing library system.
And here we use just on functionality and we expect this header.
To be in the document.
So this is doing the assertion that the Heather is in Heather is part of the the document of the HTML.
So this one is ready.
Let's.
Save this one and well, we already have the implementation so the test will pass.
Just switching to the terminal for the just.
And here we see the test is passing.
We can run the test once again by just hitting enter.
So the test is running.
And it is passing.
So compared to the default test approach, the testing library has less set apart or less interaction
with the underlying elements.
Like here in the default test.
We have this before each part which is running before each of the tests.
So before this line is executed, these are running and this is configuring the module, running this
fixture detect changes done and we get the specific element.
We check that element's attributes to make sure it is having the the value we are looking for.
But in testing library version, we just render the component.
Then we use this query function and we don't care about the elements.
All we care is about the roles and the text.
And this is just like a real user is doing is a user.
We don't know if this is H one, h two or anything, but we know this is a header in this page and what
we are seeing is just the text.
So we are just querying it like that.
We are looking for a header, having this text and we are asserting that part here.
By the way, we can use testing library in karma as well, so I can just copy this one.
And.
I'm just going to select all these changes and comment them out.
And pasting the test I copied from just part.
So I have this exact same test.
But the different part is going to be this line.
This was coming from the Gest Dome, which is specific to just but in default test setup karma is using
jasmine just like gemstone.
There is jasmine dome as well, but let's not go into that and make things complicated.
Therefore we must be going with another matcher.
Like to be pretty.
So we expect this to have value.
So switching to the karma window and.
Just saving this one.
And here we are seeing it has a up heather test is passing.
So this is also working.
But at the default test for the angler, I will continue with the default approach.
I would like to demonstrate both options because you may need to know either one during your daily work.
You can use one of them in your own personal project and the other one in your professional work.
Again, I feel having popular test set up option adds value to this course.
So this was just to demonstrate that the this library is not specific to the setup, but we can also
use in the jasmine and karma test as well.
But I'm just removing it and I will continue with the default here, just saving it to make sure everything
is working.
So we completed our first requirement.
At the moment page does not look like as sign up form.
Consider this one as a warm up requirement to get familiar with the test tools we are using in this
course.